all right so let's talk about the 2020
razer blades these are some of the most
expensive gaming laptops on the market
they are like the top tier
premium stuff uh they are very expensive
like way more than
a lot of competitors that have like
similar performance so
because they're so expensive i wanted to
do a just a different kind of review not
just a
you know an overview of the products but
i want to talk about the differences
between the different models this year
but i also want to talk about the why
like why are they so expensive
if there's a reason or a good reason at
all now in front of me are the
2020 base model the advanced model as
well as last year's
advanced model if you follow my channel
this is the device that i use the most
of over the past few years like i used
the 2018 then i switched over to 2019
model
this was an imperfect machine but i
liked it enough
uh they tweaked some stuff but yeah
let's get in all right
the base model starts at 1600 bucks but
then it jumps up quite quickly
to like 2 bucks when you go up to the
advanced model and there's hardware
configurations
and components that only exist in one or
the other
so let's talk about the things that are
in common between the two
they both have that unibody construction
to them and i think it's a feature
that makes these devices more expensive
than a lot of the competitors
right off the rip like to manufacture
this just costs more you have to mill
out that whole block of aluminum to fit
the internals in there
and it just makes the device look nicer
it's got this nice design aesthetic to
it
but it inherently costs more the base
model and the advanced model have the
exact same shape like they have the same
footprint
but the advanced model is a little bit
thinner it's like two millimeters
thinner than the base model
it's noticeable like if you pick it up
and you're feeling for it you'll notice
it
right away it is pretty obvious but it's
not something that
i think makes a big difference at least
not to me the other thing you have to
keep in mind is that the advanced model
is actually a little bit heavier
the cooling system in this one is a
little bit more robust we'll get into it
later but because of the more complex
thermal solution
the advanced model is about 100 grams
heavier now this year
they still have the black and white or
silver models but you can no longer get
this color as readily like you have to
get an oled panel
to get the mercury white which is a bit
of a miss like i feel like
one of the reasons why i was drawn to
this device in the first place was
because of its color
it's still on you know it's a well-made
machine but you now have this
very obvious almost obnoxious snake logo
up front which i don't love
now you can skin it which i would anyway
just to protect it and
kind of get the fingerprints off of it
but come on razer
i want to see the white again in a high
refresh screen another thing that's
shared between the two devices this year
both the base and advanced model
is their newly updated keyboard it's the
same keyboard as last year but
the layout of the right shift key is
finally proper this is something i've
complained about for years
it is now in this appropriate location
i will say though for people that have
never used a razer blade keyboard
the spacing is very grid-like and the
keys themselves
are completely flat there's no dish so
it does take some time to get used to
the whole kind of
typing mechanics on this thing i do
think that most people though if they
pick this up
as their regular laptop they'll learn to
like it pretty quickly
now the lighting on this keyboard is
phenomenal i'll be honest i don't care
that much about lighting because
you know once you've seen a brightly lit
rainbow keyboard once you've seen them
all
but i think razer does it if not the
best like top three of
all laptop manufacturers when it comes
to rgb lighting on the keyboards
the advanced model is individually lit
like you can change the colors of each
key
individually to your heart's content the
base model has just one color you can
switch up all the colors but
every key has to be the same color and
it's also not as bright or as vibrant
as the advanced model now to the left
and right are the speakers they sound
okay i just feel like if razer is
charging this kind of money
i would have liked to have seen better
speakers like the advanced and bass
models have the same sounding speakers
at least to me
i don't know maybe it's like
maybe i go into laptop speakers too much
but i feel like the company
that lands on good speakers on a gaming
laptop is going to win some amazing
award
no one's doing it all right let's talk
about the screens these are different
uh they've been upgraded this year so
now we're moving on to stuff that is no
longer in common
between these two the advanced model has
a 300hz
fast refresh ips panel it is very nice
super fast for games
good brightness and great color accuracy
and i think this is one of the biggest
advantages that razer has
in terms of their displays they are able
to maintain
great color accuracy despite having high
refresh screens and something that a lot
of
other gaming laptops kind of waver on
like they'll have fast screens but they
just
don't care as much about their color
accuracy so i'm able to comfortably
edit videos and work on like photos and
thumbnails and stuff
with the screen because i can trust its
color accuracy and the thing is
even their base model also has great
color accuracy on their high refresh
screen
but it's capped at 144 hertz instead of
the 300 hertz panel
on the advanced model so that's really
the biggest difference between the
screen and like kind of the gaming
experience
they both have 720p webcams but the
advanced model has an
infrared component to it so we can log
in with face biometrics
in windows hello whereas the base model
cannot do that
all right let's talk about performance
these machines have obviously very
different
performance because they are very
different in pricing
this machine the base model does not
have access to the best
of the best if you want like an
eight-core cpu you have to go with
advanced models if you want
rtx super gpus you have to go with the
advanced models
and i think the reason why they did that
is because the cooling system in this
one the advanced model is better it has
a vapor chamber so it can remove heat
more efficiently and that's why razer
puts the eight core cpu
in this model and only a six core cpu in
the unit
without the vapor chamber all right now
performance between the two
is good but not like amazing there are
devices out there that perform better
both in terms of cpu
and gpu performance than both of these
but what razer does
that is quite unique to their whole
lineup is they balance that whole like
noise level
to performance to thinness of device
well i think they do it better than most
devices out there they are able to make
a relatively high performance machine in
you know
18 or 19 millimeter package but their
fan noise
isn't crazy like it's loud but it's not
super loud there are devices that will
hit
60 decibels in the same kind of form
factor the
disadvantage to having a quieter system
like this
is that you don't get the max
performance on the chip
it's good but it's not the best
performer now i do like the fact that
razer doesn't run their system super hot
they take a notch down in performance
but it's a little bit quieter it's a
little bit cooler running than a lot of
their competitors
uh if you're into undervolting you can't
do it neither of them can be undervolted
at least
not from what i could see in either
throttle stop or xtu
last year's device was undervolted right
out of the factory so that was awesome
you can't seem to do that on this year's
10th gen ships uh
ports they're similar on both models
they have three usb-a
one usb-c and then another thunderbolt 3
usb-c
the base model has an ethernet jack the
advanced model does not
but it does have an sd card slot now in
terms of charging
so they both have a 230 watt ac adapter
they have a custom ac adapter like
90 of the laptops review just use these
generic ac adapters like from chiconi or
delta
these have their own like razer branded
ac adapter that uses a proprietary plug
but it's a braided cable and it's very
fancy and i think that is one of the
things that
bumps up the cost of these products now
the advanced model
also supports this year usb-c charging
and it's a little bit complex
you need a usb-c charger that can pump
out 20 volts which isn't super common
like a lot of the
laptop adapters can do it but the most i
could feed into this system was around
60 watts
which isn't a lot like this system
normally uses a 230 watt adapter so 60
is it's not enough to power the system
fully
so you cannot use a usbc adapter
to power this system and use it in its
normal state
it'll run on usbc it just won't be full
strength okay let's take a look at the
internals
the advanced model has a vapor chamber
that takes up a big portion
of the inside and you also have access
to your ram
and wi-fi that are both replaceable same
thing with the base model
ram wi-fi replaceable the base model
however has
two nvme drives whereas the advanced
model only has one
which is a little strange like if you
think about the people that are buying
the eight core cpu and the more powerful
gpus
they could probably use more storage but
i think they just ran out of space so
one ssd in here two in the base model
now in terms of battery size
this is an 80 watt hour battery so this
will get you five and a half hours i've
ran my test a couple times
same battery life three years in a row
five and a half hours
year on year on year this is a four hour
battery slightly more than four but
the 56 watt hour battery it's a little
short but
that's what you get okay um that
basically wraps up the review component
i think it should be pretty clear at
this point razer's devices
are they're just made differently
they're not for everyone a little bit
more expensive and
a lot of times you're paying for stuff
you don't really need like a fancy ac
adapter
but you are getting device that is not
just a plastic device that just has a
razer logo on it right i see a lot of
people talking discord like why do you
use a razer blade
there's stuff i like about it that being
said i might be switching this year
there are some devices on the horizon
that i might be switching to but
this is a solid device it's just a
little bit expensive and as for whether
or not this is like a good purchase for
you
i can't answer that you know your you
know your budgets and your
your needs and what you want to do with
your machine way more than i do i do
think though that
for the money it's it's fair especially
if you get these things on sale
now i do think that the 2019 models
are a way better value and this is often
the case with laptops in general but
because of how little has changed
coming into this year's 2020 models the
2019 models save you a good chunk of
money with close performance
and it still comes in mercury white if
you're into that
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it
i'll see you guys next time